Glossary idempotent (#40369)
mdn/content: files/en-us/glossary/idempotent/index.md

An HTTP method is **idempotent** if the intended effect on the server of making a single request is the same as the effect of making several identical requests.

The HTTP specification defines several HTTP methods and their semantics, which includes whether they are idempotent or not. All {{glossary("Safe/HTTP", "safe")}} methods are idempotent, as well as {{HTTPMethod("PUT")}} and {{HTTPMethod("DELETE")}}. The {{HTTPMethod("POST")}} and {{HTTPMethod("PATCH")}} methods are not guaranteed to be idempotent.

Idempotent methods are distinguished because the client can retry a request if its not sure whether the request reached the server. If both requests happen to reach the server, as long as the method is idempotent, no harm is done.

> Idempotency, as defined by the HTTP specification, only considers the _intented_ effect of the client on the server: for example, a POST request intends to send data to the server, or a DELETE request intends to delete a resource on the server. A request with an idempotent method does not necessarily mean that the request does not have _any_ unique side effects: for example, the server may log every request with the time it was received.

Reviewer: I don't see the repetition as a deal breaker.

I like the sentence you've provided here, but it is a bit different in form to the original you provided. Maybe we could combine the two, maybe something like:

```suggestion
The HTTP specification only defines idempotency in terms of the _intented_ effect of the client on the server. For example, a `POST` request intends to send data to the server, whereas a `DELETE` request intends to delete a resource on the server. In practice, it falls to the server to make sure the routes it exposes adhere to these semantics. Also, a request with an idempotent method does not necessarily mean that the request has _no_ unique side effects: For example, the server may log the time each request is received.
```

WDYT?

> Also, the response returned by each request may differ: for example, the first call of a {{HTTPMethod("DELETE")}} will likely return a {{HTTPStatus("200")}}, while successive ones will likely return a {{HTTPStatus("404")}}. Another implication of {{HTTPMethod("DELETE")}} being idempotent is that developers should not implement RESTful APIs with a _delete last entry_ functionality using the `DELETE` method.

Author: We can also delete that last sentence. It was already there before, and while true, it's a bit of a weird example, if you ask me.

> Also, the response returned by each request may differ: for example, the first call of a {{HTTPMethod("DELETE")}} will likely return a {{HTTPStatus("200")}}, while successive ones will likely return a {{HTTPStatus("404")}}. Another implication of {{HTTPMethod("DELETE")}} being idempotent is that developers should not implement RESTful APIs with a _delete last entry_ functionality using the `DELETE` method.

Reviewer: I am happy for you to delete it.

> While servers are very much encouraged to adhere to the semantics laid out by the HTTP specification, the spec does not mandate it. There is nothing preventing a server in the wild from exposing a non-idempotent endpoint under an idempotent HTTP method – although clients will be surprised.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While servers are very much encouraged to adhere to the semantics laid out by the HTTP specification, the spec does not mandate it. Nothing is preventing a server in the wild from exposing a non-idempotent endpoint under an idempotent HTTP method, although clients may well be surprised.
```

> A few examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Examples
```
